Add docs for the OTLP endpoint. (#2463)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/operators-guide/configure/configure-otel-collector.md

---
aliases:

>   - /docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/configuring/configuring-otel-collector/

Reviewer: Not needed because this is new content.

> description: Learn how to write data from OpenTelemetry Collector into Mimir

Reviewer: Should we be more specific and call it "metrics"?

```suggestion
description: Learn how to write metrics from OpenTelemetry Collector into Mimir
```

_If you think metrics is more appropriate, then please do the change below too.

menuTitle: Configuring OTel Collector
title: Configuring OpenTelemetry Collector to write data into Mimir
weight: 150
---

# Configuring OpenTelemetry Collector to write data into Mimir

> When using the OpenTelemetry Collector, you can write metrics data into Mimir via two options: `remote_write` and `otlphttp`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the [OpenTelemetry Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/), you can write metrics data into Mimir via two options: `remote_write` and `otlphttp`.
```

> When using the OpenTelemetry Collector, you can write metrics data into Mimir via two options: `remote_write` and `otlphttp`.

Reviewer: `remote_write` doesn't match a config option, so I see two options:
1. Rename `remote_write` to `prometheusremotewrite`.
2. Change `remote_write` to "remote write" (without double quotes)

_Same comment applies below._

We recommend using the `remote_write` exporter when possible because the remote_write ingest path is tested and proven at scale.

## Remote Write

For the Remote Write, use the [`prometheusremotewrite`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/prometheusremotewriteexporter) exporter in the Collector:

In the `exporters` section add:

```yaml
exporters:
  prometheusremotewrite:

>     endpoint: http://<mimir-endpoint>/api/prom/push

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    endpoint: http://<mimir-endpoint>/api/v1/push
```

```

> And use the same in the `service.pipelines`:

Reviewer: Would "enable it" be correct in this context? I may be clearer to understand.

```suggestion
And enable it in the `service.pipelines`:
```

```yaml
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [...]
      processors: [...]
      exporters: [..., prometheusremotewrite]
```

If you want to authenticate using basic auth, we recommend the [`basicauth`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/basicauthextension) extension:

```yaml
extensions:
  basicauth/prw:
    client_auth:
      username: username
      password: password

exporters:
  prometheusremotewrite:
    auth:
      authenticator: basicauth/prw

>     endpoint: http://<mimir-endpoint>/api/prom/push

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    endpoint: http://<mimir-endpoint>/api/v1/push
```

service:
  extensions: [basicauth/prw]
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [...]
      processors: [...]
      exporters: [..., prometheusremotewrite]
```

## OTLP

> We support a native OTLP over HTTP on Mimir. To configure the collector to use the interface, we use the [`otlphttp`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlphttpexporter) exporter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mimir supports native OTLP over HTTP. To configure the collector to use the OTLP, you can use the [`otlphttp`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/otlphttpexporter) exporter:
```

```yaml
exporters:
  otlphttp:
    endpoint: http://<mimir-endpoint>/otlp
```

> And use the same in the `service.pipelines`:

Reviewer: If above you picked the suggestion to change it to "enable it", then apply the same here too, please.

```yaml
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [...]
      processors: [...]
      exporters: [..., otlphttp]
```

If you want to authenticate using basic auth, we recommend the [`basicauth`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/extension/basicauthextension) extension:

```yaml
extensions:
  basicauth/otlp:
    client_auth:
      username: username
      password: password

exporters:
  prometheusremotewrite:
    auth:
      authenticator: basicauth/otlp

>     endpoint: http://<mimir-endpoint>/api/prom/push

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    endpoint: http://<mimir-endpoint>/api/v1/push
```
